{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Lucida Sans;}{\f7\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Lucida Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\widctlpar\hyphpar0\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\dbch\af5\dbch\af6\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sl288\slmult1\sb0\sa140 Text Body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sl288\slmult1\sb0\sa140\dbch\af7 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af7 Index;}
}{\*\generator LibreOffice/5.3.0.3$Windows_X86_64 LibreOffice_project/7074905676c47b82bbcfbea1aeefc84afe1c50e1}{\info{\creatim\yr2018\mo6\dy14\hr22\min57}{\revtim\yr2018\mo6\dy15\hr17\min17}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}{\*\userprops}\deftab709
\viewscale120
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
{\*\ftnsep\chftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\widctlpar\hyphpar0\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The CHAMP team is grateful for the time and conversation given to us by the Department of Homeland Security and the Silicon Valley Initiative yesterday, June 14}{\super\rtlch \ltrch\loch
th}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
.  In response to your questions concerning our algorithms and the validity of certain elements of our design, we have created the following document. }
\par \pard\plain \s0\widctlpar\hyphpar0\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\ltrpar\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\widctlpar\hyphpar0\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
In response to the question of sensor validity and the use of ambient temperature and humidity in interpreting the core temperature of the animal: we have found that the current guidelines for canine comfort as }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
established}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 by the 2014 USDA standard for service animals set out primar}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ily}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 guidelines for ambient temperature. }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
C}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ore temperature inferred from anal temperature is a }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
significantly }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
invasive diagnostic }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
tool. Recording both ambient and contact temperature allows us to gain complete understanding of the dog\u8217\'92s temperature and environment, and has been used as a diagnostic in many scenarios, including the study }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Regional Skin Temperatures Associated with Total Sympathetic Blockade in Conscious Dogs}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, J. Peters et al, the British Journal of Anasthesia, 1988. Additionally, in }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Comparison of rectal and axillary temperatures in dogs and cats}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 2014, Joana B. Goic, DVM et al. at Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, Michigan State University, found that axillary temperature is positively correlated with rectal temperatures, with a median difference of 0.7 degrees Fahrenheit. Finally, using the aforementioned information, we are in the process of defining an algorithm that can be used to find the core temperature working from baseline data that will be generated during testing. We are confident in being able to improve the accuracy of this data to deliver a powerful, precise product. Dr. Cynthia M. Otto of the Penn Vet Working Dog Center, highly respected in her field, commented even unfiltered heart rate data reported within canine range, and also that the GPS tracking in particular was able to identify the location of the dog and transmit to the handler.  Any further improvements revealed as necessary by further testing will also be implemented; as previously stated, refinement of data capabilities is a major Phase II goal.   Improved harness design in Phase II is also intended to improve fit, which will increase the precision of temperature readings for use in the aforementioned algorithm. }
\par \pard\plain \s0\widctlpar\hyphpar0\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\ltrpar\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\widctlpar\hyphpar0\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
In Phase II, we intend to significantly improve ease-of-use for handlers by providing alerts and notifications to detect dangerous situations for canines in the field. Currently, our abilities extend to providing intelligible, graphed data for temperature, humidity, body position, and a satellite-overlay graphical representation of geographic information. }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
In our field testing day, handlers overwhelmingly deemed the interface usable and understandable. Within the first test, handlers were already utilizing the information provided to monitor the condition of the animal, including providing water sooner than they expected in response to provided data. }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The alerts we are implementing are also based on the 2014 USDA standards for service animals, concerning both temperature and humidity. }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Throughout Phase II, we will be receiving feedback from a number of industry professionals, who will assist us in gaining insight for generating intuitive displays of information. This will result in faster, more information- dense readouts to improve handler\u8217\'92s experience. As we intend to set an industry standard, there is significant time that must be invested in creating a gold standard- one that will stand the test of time. }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
For further information }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
on the data alerts are based on}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
we ask that you }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
please see the Purdue Extension\u8217\'92s publication, }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Temperature Requirements for Dogs}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 by Mary Jordan et al, Department of Comparative Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\widctlpar\hyphpar0\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\ltrpar\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\widctlpar\hyphpar0\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The validity of our communication security was also called into question. We understand that security is a prime concern, and have acted accordingly. Our communication using the MQTT protocol uses the industry standard of Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) encryption, supporting 256 bit encryption, requiring more than 2^254 operations to attempt to break it. }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
All other communication takes place over the standards used throughout multiple industries, HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) and logins through Secure Shell (SSH).}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 The server itself, }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
on the}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 AWS platform, supports DDoS protection }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
and}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 data encryptio}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
n currently used by the DHS. The AWS platform can also be built to compliance with DoD\u8217\'92s standards. The whitepaper}{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 DoD-Compliant Implementations in the AWS Cloud}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, Bockelman and McDermott, 2015 provides security best practices to deploy compliant applications. The database containing the most sensitive information is hardened and inaccessible outside of the AWS EC2 instance. This instance also uses a service called fail2ban which records SSH attempts and will lockout the IP address by altering firewall rules after sufficient failures, and notify staff of a possible intrusion attempt. Identity management has also been addressed, with the principle of least-privilege enforced and individual accounts for individual users, tied to email addresses.  Overall, we are aligning with the best-practices possible in our current form, and have taken hold of a powerful, scalable system that will allow us to maintain secure as we grow.}
\par }